• Kuhn, T.S. (1962). The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. Chicago (University of Chicago Press) 1962.
• Positivism is a philosophical approach emphasizing empirical observation, measurement, and the scientific method as the primary sources of knowledge. Positivists assert knowledge should be based on objective, observable facts, and scientific theories should be verifiable through empirical evidence. This traditional view of science sees it as a linear an cumulative process, where contemporary scientist simply stand on the shoulders of their predecessors. Auguste Comte is known for introducing the concept of a "positivist hierarchy" of sciences. 
• Postpositivism acknowledges the importance of empirical evidence while recognizing the influence of biases and, importantly, paradigms. Paradigms are methods, systems, theories, or other scientific assertions that are taken at face value.  Major proponents include Karl Popper, who introduced falsifiability which suggests we should work to disprove explanations vice verificationism, and Thomas Kuhn, known for his work on paradigm shifts in scientific understanding.
• Postempiricism challenges the idea that empirical evidence alone provides a complete understanding. It recognizes the role of theoretical frameworks and interpretation. Proponents include Immanuel Kant, who emphasized the influence of human cognition, and Michel Foucault, who explored the relationship between knowledge and power in different contexts.
• So which philosophy is right? All of them have merits depending on the context. Positivist theory has been tremendously valuable for hard sciences such as physics, where empirical observation has led to discoveries like the laws of physics surrounding motion and gravity. However, this perspective is more limited in the so-called soft sciences where direct observation is sometimes limited, as in psychology. Human behavior is difficult to predict and is often motivated by unobservable features. Post-positivist theory is valuable for its skeptical evaluation of scientific observation, and acknowledges even pure, rational observation is subject to our biases and perceived norms. Post-positivism taken to the extreme, however, can be counterproductive, as sometimes the accepted paradigm is the best available. Excessive criticism can hamper scientific progress. Finally, post-empiricism is valuable for scientific progress as it offers potential explanations for anomalous findings which empirical evidence cannot falsify. For example, this perspective is valuable in understanding quantum mechanics which defies traditional theoretical physics. Again, this can lead to speculation if not grounded in empirical results.
• My personal take is that I-O psychology as a science is well-balanced in post-empiricism, but practitioners tend to value positivism more as they make real-world observations which tend to value empiricism, whereas I-O academic tend to lean more in the post-positivist camp as our literature often requires overreliance on paradigms (e.g., conservation of resources theory) than accumulation of empirical evidence. Even with I-O academia, however, the I-side tends to give more weight to positivism (e.g., emphasis on meta-analytic results), but I personnel feel they are outnumbered by O-side researchers who are less inclined to challenge the status quo paradigm.
• Some say science progresses one funeral at a time
